---
title: "LAMP Stack Setup"
date: 2024-08-30
---

## What is a LAMP Stack and why is it important?

Let's start with what a "stack" is and then answer why it is important.

A full-stack developer is responsible for working backend, frontend, hosting, connectivity, and all the interfaces in between. In our blog series, we're going to take this a step further into the realm of DevOps and deploy our application on a CI/CD pipeline.

The Frontend Layer is what we see. We click the buttons, navigate pages, and see images and reactions on the frontend. Functionality response to what we perform on the frontend is done by the backend. 
The Backend Layer consists of the database(s) and API functionalities that respond to the clicks we make on the frontend.
The connection between the two is an interesting interface between frontend and backend that calls upon the understanding of passing data and rexceiving it.

Finally, the entire application needs to run on a plaTform -- a server.

This entire application is hoste on a virtual machine, a remote home for your sweet little website. You can't keep it local forever and you cant disseminate your work by taking your laptop with you.

What's a LAMP stack, then?

There are different services, packages, tools,a nd libraries for each layer of a fully functional website. 
Here are some servers:
- Apache
- Node
- NGINX

Here are some Backend frameworks:
- PHP
- JS
- ExpressJS

Databases:
- MySQL
- MariaDB
- MongoDB

Frontend:
- Node


A LAMP stack consists of linux, Apache, MariaDB, and PHP

## Configuration: Local LAMP



